---
title: Chow Chow
tags:
- cabbage
- pickle
date: '2012-09-04T21:33:34-05:00'
source: http://www.mtnlaurel.com/recipes/752-southern-sweet-chow-chow-relish.html
---
ChowChow is a cabbage pickle that has roots in Southern US cooking,
Nova Scotia, and Chinese cuisine.


##  Veggies:

* 2 quarts shredded cabbage (about one medium head).
* 1/2 cup sweet onions chopped fine
* 1/2 cup chopped green or red bell peppers (optional)
* 2 Tablespoons salt

Combine chopped vegetables and sprinkle with salt. Let stand 4 to 6 hours in the refrigerator. Drain well.

##  Brine:

* 2 cups vinegar
* 1 1/2 cups sugar
* 2 teaspoons dry mustard
* 1 teaspoon turmeric
* 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
* 2 teaspoons celery seeds
* 2 teaspoons mustard seed

Combine the brine ingredients and simmer 10 minutes. Use a pot large enough to put the vegetable mix in later.

Add vegetables to vinegar-sugar-spice mixture and simmer another 10
minutes. Bring to a boil. Then pack, boiling hot, into clean, heated
canning jars, leaving only a 1/8 inch head space. Place canning lids
and rings on jars and tighten. I usually turn the jars upside down so
that all the heat is on the seals. I don't turn them back upright
until the jars are completely cool.

This recipe doesn't have to sit before it's ready to eat. After it
cools, you can start tasting it. You won't be able to tell where the
cabbage starts and the onions end. The flavors blend together
perfectly.

I think this would benefit from a bit of thai chili garlic sauce (sriracha).
